>> Evgenii Ray: Okay, so what about CSS?
For CSS,
we can apply exactly the same technique.
So if we expect that we have three
types of devices to work with, mobile,
standard, or super wide, we can split
our CSS into the three bundles, and
then serve it based on the user agent.
And instead of loading the whole CSS
chunk, we can load a slightly reduced one.
Same applies to the minification and
compression.
So if you take the minified Tailwind
library, so uncompressed is 2.1 megabyte,
minified, it's 1,900 kilobytes,
gzipped it's 200 kilobytes.
And the brotli provides the best
compression, it's 46 kilobytes.
So the next important thing
is critical style extraction.
So when we fetch the index.html page,
the way we load the assets,
we see the asset link, and
then we send the additional HTTP
requests to fetch the data.
So it results to doing two network trips.
So we can optimize that by inlining
the critical styles that are important for
our application to function into
the initial index.html request.
So when we load our first page,
we already have all the styles inlined,
and we can immediately show the content.
And non-critical styles,
such as some advanced graphic features or
inactive pages,
can be loaded under the low priority, and
the way we can load additional styles.
So first, let's see actually
how this would look like.
So the non-optimized way,
we just link our CSS to some CDN,
and this will be loaded in normal
order as a separate HTTP request.
And optimize, we just create a style
tag on our initial index.html and
inline the styles within this section.
>> Evgenii Ray: And how do we
fetch non-critical styles ideally?
So there are two ways how can we do that.
The first one,
we can tell the browser that these
styles are used for printer,
this is like a life hack.
So when this the media type is print,
then the browser will not
load this immediately.
But here we see there is a little hack.
So we have onload event.
So when the content is loaded,
we change the media type to all.
This will instruct the browser to load
the following CSS when
the whole page is loaded.
So, alternatively,
you can also use the preload parameter to
load the non-critical CSS
under the low priority.
So both solutions would work.
Summary, so how do we optimize
the network performance?
First of all, split the bundle.
So now when we have the HTTP/2,
split as much as possible.
Because usually, generally,
it's better to load things in parallel.
And minify and compress, this is
basically included in every bundle now.
And also inline critical resources to
optimize the first screen rendering.
And load the non-critical resources
on the background under low priority.
So in the bright future,
I hope that we will not have any bundler,
because everything will be
supported natively, and
we will not need to actually
prepare the assets anyhow.
But for now, yeah, we will we have to
introduce the boundary in our application.
Okay, so what about other assets?
>> Speaker 2: Quick question on
the CSS thing in the previous example.
It seems like preload would be sort of the
like, quote unquote, right way to do it,
whereas the print one is a little hackier.
Is there a reason you would
ever use the print one over?
>> Evgenii Ray: So
the thing about preload that, so,
you mentioned that you
are loading the page, and
when the browser reads the preload,
it still fires the request.
But in case, in the media print,
it will fire the request only when
the whole page is rendered, so
the ordering will be slightly different.
And utilizing the preload too much may
lead to having too many assets being
queued, so
you really need to consider case-by-case
how you want to load the resources.
So what about the images?
So the images have multiple types,
so it can be animated content,
it can be icon or logos, it can be
also a raster graphic or the photos.
For animated content,
usually we use the GIF, which is GIF.
And the GIF is not the best way to
represent animated content because
the size of the GIF, even for
three seconds, it can be 10 megabytes.
So usually, we replace the GIF with a MP4,
or we can also use the WebP.
And for icons and logos, we use SVG, and
we can optimize SVG by
using compressed SVG.
And for the raster graphic, there's a PNG.
But there is a newer format called webp,
which is basically built to
replace the PNG and JPEG.
And we can utilize it because it
provides the better compression ratio
without the quality loss.
And the next format,
which is relatively new one, is the AVIF,
which provides the best compression
rate for the photo content.
So if you're building
the photo website and
you need to provide high-quality images,
then AVIF will provide you the best
compression ratio to quality.
>> Evgenii Ray: And so
let's go through these assets.
So for instance, the following 60-kilobyte
GIF can be the same 5-kilobyte webp.
So it's very important to
choose the right format.
Also, if you look at the webp and/or AVIF,
and we can see uncompressed image quality.
So the original JPEG is 10 megabytes,
the WebP is 7.5 megabytes,
while the AVIF is 6.2 megabytes.
So uncompressed image is
38% less than the JPEG,
which is pretty good, and
also AVIF allows us to compress
even image even farther without
a big data loss comparing to JPEG.
So anyway,
when you're building your website,
it's a good practice to compress images.
Because when we browse the website,
we don't really need to see
the full size of the image.
And so the question is,
should we actually use these formats?
And I think we should, because right now,
the webp is supported by
97% of the clients, while the AVIF
is supported by 93% of the clients.
So we'll see, I think all these
formats will become pretty standard.
They already are the standard,
to be honest.
And if you're still supporting some
legacy clients, you can always fall back,
you provide a fallback to JPEG in case
if the WebP image is not supported.
>> Evgenii Ray: Same applies to SVG.
So when you have your SVG,
you can actually compress that,
so it's called SVG path compression.
And we already have extension
to our bundlers that do this
automated job when you do
the build of the bundle.
So basically, we can express the same
SVG using slightly different semantics.
And by simply removing a few symbols,
we compress the SVG by more than 50%.
And if you have lots of sprites,
SVG-based sprites,
then you probably could have, if you
have the large SVG library icon set,
then you can optimize
the SVG significantly.
And this is the number without
the zip compression or
brotli, so
it can be even optimized even further.
So the summary for the image section.
So compress images for web and
use optimized formats.
So now the optimized formats
become the standard for the web.
And make sure that if you use SVG,
use SVG path compression.
>> Evgenii Ray: Okay,
what about the fonts?
A few interesting characteristics of
the font is if you use any custom
font on your application, then
the browser behavior is it waits three
seconds to load the font, and
then it renders the content.
If the font is not loaded
within three seconds,
it will render the content
using unstyled text.
So I think this,
this part is not pretty good because,
for instance,
our CDN that stores the fonts fails, and
we don't want to not show in
the screen until the font is loaded.
So we could potentially sacrifice
some beautiness of the app and
provide the font display fallback.
This will instruct the browser to
render the unstyled text immediately
without waiting for three seconds.
If the font is loaded,
then we do the runtime switch of the font.
And there is also
the value called optional.
So basically,
we render unstyled text immediately.
But when we load the font,
we just store and cache it.
And when we refresh the page,
we just get the value from cache and
render the font as it should be.
You can choose whatever suits your
application and the design requirements.
So I think the fallback is
pretty good alternative.
Just make sure that you provide
that because default value is auto.
And here is the summary
of what we discussed.
You can just store this diagram and
it will provide you the shortcut
what we need to do with the app.
So, and
let's summarize the rendering performance.
So we're not creating a new section in
slides because we actually discussed this
already, how to optimize
the rendering performance.
So first of all, it's the DOM.
Minimize the number of DOM you
use within your DOM tree, and
use virtualization when it's necessary.
So minimize the number of graphic layers,
but
use them wisely when you need
to optimize certain things.
And also, avoid any potential reflows and
just use the separate stacking context
to isolate the elements mutation,
and also avoid using
the complex CSS selectors.
Try to implement some naming strategy so
you can use any methodology
that suit your application or
use any CSS frameworks.
So because the time it takes to compile
the long CSS selector may impact
your rendering performance if you have
hundreds of complex selectors in the app.
And also, try to utilize
the CSS animations in your app,
because they are GPU-accelerated, so
you will not block your rendering thread.
And as a good practice, use the
placeholders and the loaders to give some,
use visual feedback while
your application is loading.
The JavaScript performance
summary is very simple.
The rule of thumb,
don't block the UI thread at any cost.
And you can achieve that by
reducing your CPU usage and
optimizing your search and
access cost to the data.
And you need to reduce your RAM usage.
And when you have lots of data that
you store it in your global state,
make sure you put this into some
kind of hard drive storage.
So IndexedDB is a very good example.
And if you need to write and
read your data,
avoid putting this data into
the any synchronous storage,
such as local storage or session storage,
because it will block your UI thread.
And also one thing if you can
utilize a synchronous job.
So now that the Web Workers
support it in many clients,
you can put some heavy tasks to
the Web Worker and allow Web Worker
to sort it out in a separate thread,
or you can utilize the server.
And that's it.
So we've done all the sections
of the presentation now, and
I hope that all the sections
were useful to you.
And now, I think it's time for us to apply
this knowledge in practice by actually
doing the mock system design interview,
we're gonna set up the board.